# main-fisheries-chile

The following document explains how to navigate across the different elements contained in the r project called *main-fisheries-chile*. The goal of this project is to assess the contribution of different domestic marine fisheries to landings, national economy, livelihoods and food security in Chile. The goal is organized in four scopes:

1) **Fisheries context**: aims to identify the top domestic marine fisheries in terms of volume and value in the country. 

2) **Fisheries employment and income**: aims to identify the top domestic fisheries contributing to employment and income of people involved in fish-related activities (e.g. harvesting, processing, selling) in the country. 

3) **Domestic fish consumption**: aims to identify the top domestic fisheries in the country that contribute to domestic seafood consumption, as well as the relative contribution of other sources of seafood (e.g. aquaculture, inland capture, foreign).  

4) **Critical analysis**: aims to provide a discussion based on the research components described above and our own expertise. In addition, it looks to identify the caveats and assumptions of the implemented analytic approach as well as suggestions for future research projects to address these shortfalls.

## Contents of main-fisheries-chile.Rproj

Besides the document you are now reading, the project contains the following folders:

1) **raw_databases**: contains all the databases that were used to elaborate the estimates for scope 1, 2 and 3. This folder also contains a document called *metadata_raw_databases.xlsx* that provides an overview of each database contained in the raw_databases folder. The different databases are organized in folders named based on their source and topic. 

2) **reports**: includes all the reports that were used to generate estimates for scope 1, 2 and 3. It also contains a document called *metadata_reports.xlsx* that provides an overview for each report contained in the reports folder. The different reports are organized in folders named based on their source and topic. 

3) **scripts**: this folder contains two folders, (i) *cleaning_data* which containes the scripts to generate each clean database starting from the raw databases, (ii) *scopes*, which containes three *.Rmd* documents, one for each empirical scope of the project. Each one of these documents explains step by step how information from clean databases and reports was combined to generate the assessment for each scope. There is also a *.pdf* document for each scope that provides a more readable version of the script and results. 

4) **clean_databases**: contains all the databases generated by the authors by cleaning and reformatting raw databases. This databases may include estimates and values informed by reports. To review how a clean database was generated go to *scripts/cleaning_data* and look for the *.Rmd* named as the cleaned database you are interested on. The script should guide you through the information and manipulation steps to generate the clean database. 

5) **documents_from_oceana**: contains all the documents generated by Oceana use to guide the work through the different scopes. 

